README.md, before:

# DHL business shipping

An unofficial library for the DHL business shipping soap API (Version 3.0) written in PHP. 

[![api version](https://img.shields.io/badge/api%20version-3.0-yellow)](https://entwickler.dhl.de/group/ep/wsapis/geschaeftskundenversand-3.0)
![PHP version](https://img.shields.io/badge/php->=5.6-blue)
[![Build Status](https://api.travis-ci.com/christoph-schaeffer/dhl-business-shipping.svg)](https://travis-ci.com/github/christoph-schaeffer/dhl-business-shipping/builds)
![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/badge/coverage-100%25-green)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/christoph-schaeffer/dhl-business-shipping?branch=3.0)](http://badges.mit-license.org)

## Features
This library provides access to functions provided by the official dhl business shipping soap api in an object oriented way. 

These functions are:
- Create, delete and update shipment labels
- Generate export documents
- Check if shipment data is valid
- Download reports of a given date as a pdf file

Additional functions this library provides:
- Mapping the returned status messages to objects instead of just returning strings
- Seperation of street name and street/house number. However this is experimental.
- Country code to country name conversion
- PHPunit testing of internal functions
- A detailed [documentation](https://christoph-schaeffer.de/dhl-business-shipping/documentation/3-0) page

## Getting started
### Technical Requirements
- PHP 5.6=< / for using PHPunit PHP 7.2=<
- [PHP soap extension](https://www.php.net/manual/en/book.soap.php)
- [Composer](https://getcomposer.org)
### Authentication Requirements
- [DHL developer account](https://entwickler.dhl.de)
- To get an API key login to your DHL developer account and register your application [here](https://entwickler.dhl.de/group/ep/myapps). 
For production mode you will also have to request approval of your application by DHL.
- [DHL business customer account](https://www.dhl-geschaeftskundenportal.de/webcenter/portal/gkpExternal), which is essentially the live account a user will login and order shipment labels.
### Installation
Add this repository to your composer.json requirements manually or navigate to your repository and enter the following command:
```
composer require christoph-schaeffer/dhl-business-shipping
```
### Usage
The following is a simple example usage of the createShipmentOrder function. 
However please keep in mind that there is a lot of additional functionality. 
For more details or examples of other functions please read the [documentation](https://christoph-schaeffer.de/dhl-business-shipping/documentation/3-0).

Create a client object and fill it with your credentials.
```
use ChristophSchaeffer\Dhl\BusinessShipping\Client; // Autoload the Client class

$client = new Client(
    'appID',        // In sandbox mode this is your developer ID.
    'apiToken',     // In sandbox mode this is your developer account password.
    'login',        // DHL business customer account name
    'password',     // DHL business customer password
    TRUE            // isSandbox
    Client::LANGUAGE_LOCALE_ENGLISH_GB // Set the status message language to english(default is german).
);
```
Create a new shipment order for each shipment you want to send.
```
$shipmentOrder = new \ChristophSchaeffer\Dhl\BusinessShipping\Resource\ShipmentOrder();
```
Set the shipment details.
```
$shipmentOrder->Shipment->ShipmentDetails->product = 'V01PAK'; // V01PAK = National package
$shipmentOrder->Shipment->ShipmentDetails->accountNumber = '22222222220101'; // DHL bussiness customer account number
$shipmentOrder->Shipment->ShipmentDetails->ShipmentItem->weightInKG = 1.2; // The weight including packaging
```
Set the shippers address in case the shipment can't be delivered it will be returned to that address.
```
$shipmentOrder->Shipment->Shipper->Name->name1 = 'DHL Paket GmbH';
$shipmentOrder->Shipment->Shipper->Address->streetName = 'Sträßchensweg';
$shipmentOrder->Shipment->Shipper->Address->streetNumber = '10';
$shipmentOrder->Shipment->Shipper->Address->zip = '53113';
$shipmentOrder->Shipment->Shipper->Address->city = 'Bonn';
$shipmentOrder->Shipment->Shipper->Address->Origin->countryISOCode = 'DE';
```
Set the receivers address.
```
$shipmentOrder->Shipment->Receiver->name1 = 'DHL Paket GmbH';
$shipmentOrder->Shipment->Receiver->Address->streetName = 'Charles-de-Gaulle-Str.';
$shipmentOrder->Shipment->Receiver->Address->streetNumber = '20';
$shipmentOrder->Shipment->Receiver->Address->zip = '53113';
$shipmentOrder->Shipment->Receiver->Address->city = 'Bonn';
$shipmentOrder->Shipment->Receiver->Address->Origin->countryISOCode = 'DE';
```
Add up to 30 shipment orders into an array.
```
$shipmentOrders = [$shipmentOrder]; // It is possible to send up to 30 shipment orders in one request.
```
Set up the request object, call the createShipmentOrder function and get its response.
```
$request = new \ChristophSchaeffer\Dhl\BusinessShipping\Request\createShipmentOrder($shipmentOrders);
$response = $client->createShipmentOrder($request);
```
To check if the request was successful use the hasNoErrors function. If the request itself or any of the creation state objects have errors you can display their messages.
```
if($response->hasNoErrors()): // checks if any error status messages have been returned.
    echo 'Success!';
    foreach($response->CreationState as $creationState):
        echo 'shipment number: '. $creationState->shipmentNumber;
        echo 'shipment label url:'.$creationState->LabelData->labelUrl; // When the label response type is url
        echo 'shipment label data:'.$creationState->LabelData->labelData; // When the label response type is base64 or ZPL2
    endforeach;
else:
    echo 'An error occured!\n';

    foreach($response->Status as $status): // echo all response status messages.
        echo '\n- '.$status->message;
    endforeach;

    foreach($response->CreationStates as $creationState): // There will be a creation state for each shipment order.
        foreach($creationState->LabelData->Status as $status): // echo all creation state status messages .
            echo '\n-- '.$status->message;
        endforeach;
    endforeach;
endif;
```
## Documentation
- There is an official documentation by DHL found [here](https://entwickler.dhl.de). However it is partly outdated and incomplete.
- A documentation page for this project can be found [here](https://christoph-schaeffer.de/dhl-business-shipping/documentation/3-0).

## Support
- For reporting bugs and suggestions please use the [issues tab](https://github.com/christoph-schaeffer/dhl-business-shipping/issues).
- If you have any questions feel free to contact me by mail christoph-dietrich@web.de.

## License
This project is licensed under the [MIT license](http://badges.mit-license.org). Please read the [LICENSE file](https://github.com/christoph-schaeffer/dhl-business-shipping/blob/master/LICENSE) for details.

Commit message:

Add all required Data to the demo-shipment

README.md, after:

# DHL business shipping

An unofficial library for the DHL business shipping soap API (Version 3.0) written in PHP. 

[![api version](https://img.shields.io/badge/api%20version-3.0-yellow)](https://entwickler.dhl.de/group/ep/wsapis/geschaeftskundenversand-3.0)
![PHP version](https://img.shields.io/badge/php->=5.6-blue)
[![Build Status](https://api.travis-ci.com/christoph-schaeffer/dhl-business-shipping.svg)](https://travis-ci.com/github/christoph-schaeffer/dhl-business-shipping/builds)
![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/badge/coverage-100%25-green)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/christoph-schaeffer/dhl-business-shipping?branch=3.0)](http://badges.mit-license.org)

## Features
This library provides access to functions provided by the official dhl business shipping soap api in an object oriented way. 

These functions are:
- Create, delete and update shipment labels
- Generate export documents
- Check if shipment data is valid
- Download reports of a given date as a pdf file

Additional functions this library provides:
- Mapping the returned status messages to objects instead of just returning strings
- Seperation of street name and street/house number. However this is experimental.
- Country code to country name conversion
- PHPunit testing of internal functions
- A detailed [documentation](https://christoph-schaeffer.de/dhl-business-shipping/documentation/3-0) page

## Getting started
### Technical Requirements
- PHP 5.6=< / for using PHPunit PHP 7.2=<
- [PHP soap extension](https://www.php.net/manual/en/book.soap.php)
- [Composer](https://getcomposer.org)
### Authentication Requirements
- [DHL developer account](https://entwickler.dhl.de)
- To get an API key login to your DHL developer account and register your application [here](https://entwickler.dhl.de/group/ep/myapps). 
For production mode you will also have to request approval of your application by DHL.
- [DHL business customer account](https://www.dhl-geschaeftskundenportal.de/webcenter/portal/gkpExternal), which is essentially the live account a user will login and order shipment labels.
### Installation
Add this repository to your composer.json requirements manually or navigate to your repository and enter the following command:
```
composer require christoph-schaeffer/dhl-business-shipping
```
### Usage
The following is a simple example usage of the createShipmentOrder function. 
However please keep in mind that there is a lot of additional functionality. 
For more details or examples of other functions please read the [documentation](https://christoph-schaeffer.de/dhl-business-shipping/documentation/3-0).

Create a client object and fill it with your credentials.
```
use ChristophSchaeffer\Dhl\BusinessShipping\Client; // Autoload the Client class

$client = new Client(
    'appID',        // In sandbox mode this is your developer ID.
    'apiToken',     // In sandbox mode this is your developer account password.
    'login',        // DHL business customer account name
    'password',     // DHL business customer password
    TRUE            // isSandbox
    Client::LANGUAGE_LOCALE_ENGLISH_GB // Set the status message language to english(default is german).
);
```
Create a new shipment order for each shipment you want to send.
```
$shipmentOrder = new \ChristophSchaeffer\Dhl\BusinessShipping\Resource\ShipmentOrder();
```
Set the shipment details.
```
$shipmentOrder->Shipment->ShipmentDetails->product = 'V01PAK'; // V01PAK = National package
$shipmentOrder->Shipment->ShipmentDetails->accountNumber = '22222222220101'; // DHL bussiness customer account number
$shipmentOrder->Shipment->ShipmentDetails->ShipmentItem->weightInKG = 1.2; // The weight including packaging
$shipmentOrder->Shipment->ShipmentDetails->shipmentDate = '2020-12-08'; // The shipping date. Must not be in the past
```
Set the shippers address in case the shipment can't be delivered it will be returned to that address.
```
$shipmentOrder->Shipment->Shipper->Name->name1 = 'DHL Paket GmbH';
$shipmentOrder->Shipment->Shipper->Address->streetName = 'Sträßchensweg';
$shipmentOrder->Shipment->Shipper->Address->streetNumber = '10';
$shipmentOrder->Shipment->Shipper->Address->zip = '53113';
$shipmentOrder->Shipment->Shipper->Address->city = 'Bonn';
$shipmentOrder->Shipment->Shipper->Address->Origin->countryISOCode = 'DE';
```
Set the receivers address.
```
$shipmentOrder->Shipment->Receiver->name1 = 'DHL Paket GmbH';
$shipmentOrder->Shipment->Receiver->Address->streetName = 'Charles-de-Gaulle-Str.';
$shipmentOrder->Shipment->Receiver->Address->streetNumber = '20';
$shipmentOrder->Shipment->Receiver->Address->zip = '53113';
$shipmentOrder->Shipment->Receiver->Address->city = 'Bonn';
$shipmentOrder->Shipment->Receiver->Address->Origin->countryISOCode = 'DE';
```
Add up to 30 shipment orders into an array.
```
$shipmentOrders = [$shipmentOrder]; // It is possible to send up to 30 shipment orders in one request.
```
Set up the request object, call the createShipmentOrder function and get its response.
```
$request = new \ChristophSchaeffer\Dhl\BusinessShipping\Request\createShipmentOrder($shipmentOrders);
$response = $client->createShipmentOrder($request);
```
To check if the request was successful use the hasNoErrors function. If the request itself or any of the creation state objects have errors you can display their messages.
```
if($response->hasNoErrors()): // checks if any error status messages have been returned.
    echo 'Success!';
    foreach($response->CreationState as $creationState):
        echo 'shipment number: '. $creationState->shipmentNumber;
        echo 'shipment label url:'.$creationState->LabelData->labelUrl; // When the label response type is url
        echo 'shipment label data:'.$creationState->LabelData->labelData; // When the label response type is base64 or ZPL2
    endforeach;
else:
    echo 'An error occured!\n';

    foreach($response->Status as $status): // echo all response status messages.
        echo '\n- '.$status->message;
    endforeach;

    foreach($response->CreationStates as $creationState): // There will be a creation state for each shipment order.
        foreach($creationState->LabelData->Status as $status): // echo all creation state status messages .
            echo '\n-- '.$status->message;
        endforeach;
    endforeach;
endif;
```
## Documentation
- There is an official documentation by DHL found [here](https://entwickler.dhl.de). However it is partly outdated and incomplete.
- A documentation page for this project can be found [here](https://christoph-schaeffer.de/dhl-business-shipping/documentation/3-0).

## Support
- For reporting bugs and suggestions please use the [issues tab](https://github.com/christoph-schaeffer/dhl-business-shipping/issues).
- If you have any questions feel free to contact me by mail christoph-dietrich@web.de.

## License
This project is licensed under the [MIT license](http://badges.mit-license.org). Please read the [LICENSE file](https://github.com/christoph-schaeffer/dhl-business-shipping/blob/master/LICENSE) for details.
